#labels Featured,Phase-Implementation,Phase-Deploy,MotifCompareAndCluster
#motif comparison and clustering.

=Usage=
The software called '*BBC*' has the following functions: 
  # Compare diffrent motif profiles.
  # Cluster motif profiles.
  # Annotate motifs in aligned sequences.

=Installation=
Simply put '*BoBro2.0.tar.gz*' in any directory,
  * $ tar zxvf BoBro2.0.tar.gz
enter the folder '*BoBro2.0/*' and type
  * $ ./INSTALL

=Inputs and outputs=
==The input file can be only sequences in standard *fasta* forma==
*BBC* will run *BoBro* firstly to get the motif prediction, then cluster and annotate them back to aligned sequences.
  * $ perl BBC.pl SequenceFile
The three result files will be in folder '*SequenceFile.BBC*':
  # Result about motif prediction: *SequenceFile.BBC/SequenceFile.closures*;
  # Result about motif comparison is in *SequenceFile.BBC/SequenceFile.similarity*;
  # Result about motif cluster and annotation is in *SequenceFile.BBC/SequenceFile.BBC*.

==Users can input SequenceFile and known motif files in 4 format== 
  * BoBro standard output: 0; 
  * alignment: 1;
  * matrix: 2;
  * consensus: 3.

the examples of the last three format are provided in current package (*motif_alignment, motif_consensus, motif_matrix*).

  *$ perl BBC.pl SequenceFile motif_alignment [0/1/2/3]


The three result files will be in folder '*SequenceFile.BBC*'
  # Result about motif prediction: *SequenceFile.BBC/SequenceFile.motif_alignment.closures*;
  # Result about motif comparison is in *SequenceFile.BBC/SequenceFile.motif_alignment.similarity*;
  # Result about motif cluster and annotation is in *SequenceFile.BBC/SequenceFile.motif_alignment.BBC*;


=Format of outputs=
==Result file about motif comparison==
Here is an example

|| similarity||Motif-1|| Motif-2|| Motif-3|| Motif-4||
|| Motif-1|| 0.00 (0-0)||0.18 (1-1)||0.15 (4-1)||0.24 (2-1) ||
|| Motif-2|| 0.18 (1-1)||0.00 (0-0)||0.20 (2-1)||0.11 (3-1) ||
|| Motif-3|| 0.15 (1-4)||0.20 (1-2)||0.00 (0-0)||0.27 (2-1) ||
|| Motif-4|| 0.24 (1-2)||0.11 (1-3)||0.27 (1-2)||0.00 (0-0) ||

This is comparison result for 4 motifs. The decimals in 4*4 matrix (leading diagonal excluded) mean similarity scores of corresponding motif pairs.

==Result file about motif cluster and annotation==
Here is an example of head information of the output file,


||BOBRO-Based motif Comparison and Annotation (BBC) result:||
||Input sequences:||        data.fasta;||
||Predicted motifs:||       data.fasta.closures;||

Motifs with hierarchical clustering:

||Rank||    Name||    Length||  M(Motif rank)-(1st level cluster)-(2nd level cluster)||
||1||       Motif-1|| 14 ||     M1_1_1||
||2||       Motif-2|| 14 ||     M2_2_2||
||3||       Motif-3|| 14 ||     M3_3_3||
||4||       Motif-4|| 14 ||     M4_2_4||

Above is the information of cluster result for 4 motifs, followed by annotation on aligned sequences. 
The label like 'M1_1_1' is cluster information of motifs, the first number is original label of motifs (ranked by the decreasing order of z-score), the motifs with same second number means that they are in same cluster with fair similarity and same third number means they share high similarity.


=Contact=
Any questions, problems, bugs are welcome and should be dumped to

Qin Ma <maqin@uga.edu>

Bingqiang Liu <bingqiangsdu@gmail.com>

Creation: 01/23/2013