#labels Featured,Phase-Implementation,MotifRefinement
#motif finding and refinement by filtering out noises at a genome scale

=Usage=
The software called '*BBR*' has the following functions:
  # De-nove Motif finding in a fasta format promoter file.
  # De-nove Motif finding with background sequences (if have) in fasta format.
  # Motif finding with a comparative genomic framework.

=Installation=
Simply put "BoBro2.0.tar.gz" in any directory,
  * $ tar zxvf BoBro2.0.tar.gz
enter the folder "BoBro2.0/" and type
  * $ ./INSTALL

=CMD line=
  * Simply run the following cmd to get a brief guide.
  _$ perl BBR.pl_
  * To do De-nove Motif finding in a fasta format promoter file:
  _$ perl BBR.pl 1 promoters_
  * To do De-nove Motif finding with background sequences (if have) in fasta format:
  _$ perl BBR.pl 2 promoters background_file_
  * To do Motif finding with a comparative genomic framework:
  _$ perl script/bbr_cmp_method.pl_


=Inputs and outputs=
==When used to do De-nove motif finding==
  * The promoter file and background_file should be in standard fasta format,(see promoter and background file in this folder for example).

  * The output file will be named promoters.closures, (see promoters.closures for example). Basically, it contains 
  # input data summary
  # command line summary
  # for each motif candidate found, there will be detailed information: 
    * motif seed: the seed sequence used to find this motif(which is a 'core' of the motif);
    * motif position weight matrix and consensus;
    * a table show all the aligned motif.

==When used to do Motif finding with a comparative genomic framework==
For the target genome and reference genomes, three kinds of data is needed:
  # the genome data (which could be downloaded from ncbi genebank); 
  # the operon data (which could be downloaded or predicted from DOOR database);
  # the orthology relationship between the target and references (which could be predicted use RBH method or GOST);
*NOTE*: Please see the the contents of folder example for details.

Take _E. coli_ as the target genome, two other species as reference.

  * target_list: a list of gi from Ecoli;
  * Ecoli.opr: operon structure of Ecoli;
  * Escherichia_coli_K_12_substr__MG1655_uid57779: Ecoli data from NCBI;
  * ncbi_data: the directory contains the species reference information downloaded from NCBI;

All the output files are stored in the folder example_output, which contains:

  # result.txt: same as the a De-nove prediction;
  # motif.alignment: all alignments of predicted motif;
  # motif.alignment.similarity: similarity score between each motif, (same as the output of BBC);
  # Logos foreach motif are also given.

==Data format==
  *operon: operon structure from DOOR;

||1:||16077069 ||
||2:|| 16077070 ||
||3:|| 16077071 16077072 255767014 ||
||4: ||16077074 ||

  * ortholog: orthology information between Ecoli and reference: (stanard output of GOST)
||145698239,||187933779|| 5e-90,||6e-90||
||145698257,||187933775|| 2e-05,||3e-05||
||145698262,||187935634|| 1e-27,||6e-27||
||145698268,||187932476|| 2e-25,||9e-23||
||145698269,||187933610|| 5e-05,||7e-05||

=Contact=
Any questions, problems, bugs are welcome and should be dumped to

Qin Ma <maqin@uga.edu>

Chuan Zhou <zhouchuan121@gmail.com>

Creation: June. 27, 2012